there have been more cover versions of
yesterday than any other Fab Four song
by 1980 it had already been covered over
2,500 times the guitar in yesterday is
tuned down a whole step in the key of G
which means that it ends up sounding in
the key of F here are your tuning notes
the first-string D your second string a
you
your third string f your 4th string see
your fifth string G and your sixth
string D this song was recorded with a
particularly interesting way of finger
picking the strings with a thumb being
used to pluck the bass notes and index
middle and ring fingers used to grab the
upper strings in a strum like pick like
this
because of this approach the fingers
don't always hit exactly the same
strings as you would if you were picking
in a more conventional way like this i'm
going to play the notes of yesterday in
the more conventional way but feel free
to experiment with the other method
here's how the verse and bridge sections
sound up to speed
the verses begin on G go to F sharp
minor
to be seven and up to the e note when
you reach e walk down in the base from
e3d to land on sea
then move to d7 and resolve to G
from the G walk down in the base to E
minor been up to a quickly touch see and
resolve to G again the bridge starts off
with a similar progression skipping the
G this time to go immediately into F
sharp minor to be seven
once you reach the e note up here drop
the finger-picking pattern for one
measure and change to plucking two
strings at a time from e minor to D to C
to B 5 and ending on a minor 6 check out
how the notes in the bass descend at the
same time that the melody goes up from
the a minor 6 go to d7 and then resolve
to G repeat this section again to finish
off the bridge
you
on the final verse there are some minor
variations here's the final verse with
the backing tracks
you
one minor difference in this verse is
that you start out strumming the G chord
without the base another difference is
that you play an F sharp minor 7 chord
this time instead of just a plain F
sharp minor chord
the piece finishes with a nice little
tag on the tops three strings moving
from G to A seven over G to C and then
back to G
notice how the outer two voices stay the
same throughout while the voice on the B
string walks down from D to C sharp to
see like this and then hammers up to D